So now we need to get
the other parts of it,
right, we need the present
working directory.
And we also need the config.
So these should hopefully
be pretty easy to code up.
So let's go function, get config,
and we're gonna take in a,
instead of taking in the ops object,
we're just going to take in,
lets just take in the option
to a file buff or
a path buff that is a part of our struct.
And the reason being remember with
Rust when you pass an object,
you don't get it back.
So we gonna think a little bit
more about what we have available.
So let's go like this, config which
is gonna be an option of file or
file path buff awesome.
So I'm gonna go all the way up here,
where are you?
There you're, that's what you are, and
we're gonna return back out a path buff,
awesome.
So exact same thing we're supposed to do
if let some, we'll just call this V for
value equals config, so if it is if you've
provided me one then I'm just simply
gonna return that one, right?
I'm just gonna echo right back out to you,
return V, right?
Fantastic, but if you didn't provide
me one I now need to go out and
do the exact same thing I didn't note.
So we can go back and we can look
at node for just one quick second.
Where did we do this?
We did this right here, right?
I grabbed something from the environment
I just said hey what's your config
home, right?
So we can do almost this exact
that same thing right here, right?
So, I'm gonna jump back using effectively
that code up [SOUND] There we go, right?
Look at that we have pretty much
the exact same code right here.
So how do we translate
this in the Rust world?
Everything is a lead, right?
This is a constant, and
instead of using process we go standard.
And var right?
And so, now I can just simply take in this
beautiful little item right here, right?
So there we go,
we have this nice location.
So what is this?
Well, let's first go in here and
let's kinda jump to this thing.
And of course, the jump to
definition awesome, it's working.
So it actually returns a result of string,
or there's a VAR error.
So this is good to know.
So that means if we take advantage
of the error throwing stuff, and
anyhow we can make this function really,
really nice.
Yeah, we have a question.
>> Can you get rid of the length
check because of the pop expect?
>> No, we can't get rid of that
because you could always provide more
arguments here.
I could provide two arguments to print.
And so pop would actually
pop off the second argument.
It might be a bit confusing, we
definitely got to keep that right there.
So I'm using the exact same stuff
right here we have our location,
we have an error.
So instead of returning a pathBuff,
let's return an anyhow result and
this is where the magic really happens
with Rust and its error handling.
So the exact same error handling
was on the other side of go,right?
We had every single line with if
error not equal to nil do this.
Now we don't have to worry about that.
Since I've just returned
this into a result,
we have to turn it into an okay now.
So, hey this function did not fail and
I can just do this beautiful thing and
now the word context.
Now context allows me to add a little
bit of information to the air,
not like an expect.
When an expect fails your program fails.
Context on the other hand is when an error
happens, I can just add some words
to it and then somewhere else the program
can fail or give me that information.
So, I'm just gonna do that right here.
Unable to get xtg_config_home, yeah,
awesome, and
then I'm gonna give it the old gUiw,
beautiful little vim command right there.
And then toss on the end,
a wonderful little question mark.
Now, what that question mark
does is it unwraps the result,
we already went through that.
It doesn't match on the result, and
if there was an air, returns the air.
If there's not an air just
gives me up the value.
And look at that we now have the string so
fantastic, right?
So I'm just gonna use this and
the promise is we have a string here.
We don't want a string right
we want a path buff, so
let's do this let Lok
equals path buff From Oak.
All right, so
now what does it look it's a path buff.
Awesome, we have exactly what we want.
And so we're gonna make it mutable path
buff because we want to do a couple
operations on it.
Let's go loc.push, and
I'm wanna push in projector.
And then I'm gonna push in projector.json.
So this is exactly kind of what you
would expect from xtg.config.home.
So I'm kind of using this method I'm not
concerned too much about home anymore just
like I wasn't on go we're just going
to kind of stick to one of them you can
pick one of them.
However you want to but there you go,
I now have my location pretty good, right?
And so now I just need the return and
Ok(loc) fantastic.
We've just done it and it really made that
error handling right here pretty dang easy
I could make it a little bit more
readable throw that right there awesome.
I'm gonna copy this entire thing.
Go down here and we're gonna do one more
function, get present working directory.
And again, remember with Rust,
we wanna pass in the value we want to use.
We don't want to just pass in the entire
config or the entire options because then
we run into this huge problem, with me
converting one thing from a vector, and
me having these references, and now I'm
using this and this, and we got problems.
So let's just stick with this because or
else we don't want to clone out.
So they will make more sense, the more you
play with rest, sticking with values and
using them.
So let's go let's do
what do we do right here?
That's right,
we did a present working directory and
did this as an option of a path buff,
right?
And let's have the exact same thing,
cuz how much do you wanna bet that present
working directory might throw an error?
So I'm just gonna pre
assume that it is and
I'm gonna return out a path buff,
all right?
If present working directory,
we can also do is_some and
then unwrap it, but
might as well use pattern matching, right?
Present working directory,return some
present working directory, right?
If it is some, awesome, let's return it.
If it's not some,
let's do something different.
Let's do exactly this stuff, but
how do we do present working directory?
Well, how much do you wanna bet?
There's yet another one of these
type of things that exist.
Now I'm not 100% sure if this thing
exists but let's figure this out.
So let's go to the standard
let's go to end.
And I bet you there is current dir.
There you go that's the one the current
directory it's in a path buff awesome but
it does have an error.
So, I'm happy that we did put this
on here, so let's execute that.
Let's put a nice little
bit of context on this and
went aired getting current directory
I look nice that is we add
a little bit of context for
our future selves, right?
Let's see present working directory equals
that So what is present working directory?
It is a path buff, awesome.
Which means we can really just simply,
we can just return this out, right?
No need to do anything, else we got
exactly what we wanted to get, fantastic.
Let's just use that.
And, of course, it's okay It's not some,
we're not using options
we're using results.
My fault on that one.
There we go, so
we now have everything we kind of want.
And so now we should just be able
to build that simple method,
to be able to convert a opt into a config.
So let's do that.
So we have a couple of
different ways we can do that.
We can either do a function that exists a
public function that's like git config and
you pass in an option.
Or the options from those CLI, or we could
just do an intel, intel is are pretty fun.
I like those, so let's do a let's
I'm gonna put it way up here,
cuz it just feels weird being down there,
right?
And we also haven't even described it yet.
Let's do a struct config.
We haven't, we haven't even done that yet.
How'd you guys forget,
operation: which is gonna be,
a present working directory,
which is gonna be a pathBuff,
and a config which is gonna be a pathBuff.
Remember, we do need to make these public,
so, don't forget to make things public,
cuz we need someone to be able to
import all this information in and
to be able to use all these properties.
And so now we can do our final little bit,
which is gonna say, impl From.
Actually, we're gonna wanna do a TryFrom,
right?
TryFrom a Opts for config.
All right, so we're gonna convert
our options into a config fantastic.
This should be pretty easy to do again
implement the members we get our type err
and we have retry for a method.
Well let's do that let's go and
anyhow air.
Hopefully none of this is too surprising.
Ooh, love Ws.
Didn't quite make it out of insert mode.
There we go, we have it.
Now we have the value that's ops again.
What is happening to the ops right here?
It's being consumed, right?
So that means our main
program cannot reference Opts
after we pass it into this TryFrom.
That makes sense though,
we don't really need it again.
I think we're all okay with that.
Again, don't need that air because we're
gonna be using the anyhow results type.
It's just a simple shorthand.
You can redefine things,
you can effectively do these like
little type redefinitions, right?
So I can go foo equals a result
of you usize that, right?
And you're like, Cool.
So now if I were to refer to foo,
it has a specific value, right?
So that's all that any house really
doing underneath the hood if
you're wondering why their
result only takes in one value.
They just defined the air,
to be a special type of air.
So that they can handle.
All right, awesome.
So we have this try from and now we just
need to convert this one thing at a time.
So let's do all the fun stuff.
Value we do have is it args?
Yep, we have this nice beautiful
vector string right here.
And now I can call try into, right?
And I can go let operation equals this and
do one of those fantastic.
We have the operation because we already
defined how it does its morphing and
everything down below.
Fantastic I can go config because I'm
gonna go valued I'm gonna go get config So
from of course value.config fantastic.
And of course present working directory
for present working directory, right?
We have all three of those,
now I could have in lined each one
of these when I created the struct.
But I just kinda wanna throw it out
here so you could see each step.
But in the reality is I could have
just done a simple one of these and
just had them nicely defined in here,
right?
I could just move them all down in here,
but we'll do operation, config,
present working directory.
And of course it's gonna say hey
you're wrong I expect a result object,
If you're absolutely right,
let me give you that result object.
Okay, boom, and
this thing has mismatch thing.
I forgot to do.
[LAUGH] It's not funny.
It's not funny at all.
There we go,
nice error handling it feels very simple,
it just passes this up the chain.
Does this all feel pretty good,
the air handling.I know you guys are
probably rapidly typing trying to keep up.
It's very familiar for me,
so it feels very easy to do.
I know it feels foreign for
you, it's like the first
time seeing a lot of these kinda concepts,
but it becomes progressively easier.
You just little bit of time
always makes things easier.
Does this all make sense is everyone
kind of on the same board with this
does that make sense
what just happened there.
What about this?
Try_into, do you like that?
What happened when I did that try_into?
Does anyone know?
How did it know what it was?
Or two things happened, right?
Well first off, how did I use operation?
I used operation down here and config.
So knew for
a fact it was of type operation.
Second, what is try into?
Try into is a method that exists if
you implement the try from trait.
So when I go down here and I had this nice
little try from trait right here I said
hey if you're a vector string and
I called try into you
can become an operation if you
need to become an operation.
And so that's how it was able to do
all those transformations the compiler
figured it out, from how I used to
Operation what needs to happen.
So it's pretty clever, pretty awesome and
knows exactly where to call it and
now all the airs are nicely
flowing through.
And so when we go to our main file,
what do we call it, projector.rs.
I can then, I can like this config.
Up, I probably need to
import in config and
I can go try into do one of those
beautiful little things right there.
And then of course I need to
return a result of nothing, right?
Cuz we don't do anything
out of the main function so
I'm gonna do this nice
little okay over here, and
of course it's gonna say I don't
know what this result is, right?
I don't recognize it
anyhow use anyhow result.
And then I got this really beautiful
nice little thing that worked
all the way through except for
the darn debug which I forgot.
So of course do the old derive debug and
then it's gonna say well
I don't know if you know this but
operation doesn't do debug.
Okay, so that's pretty rude and so
we're gonna throw that on there since all
the subtypes and operation do derive debug
we should be good to go jump back to our
main file and as you can see everything's
working let's go cargo run blah.
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah and it's
gonna say your print is wrong you gave
me two again but I expected one so
it all worked out in the end.
I hope it's not too overwhelming is
kind of an ambitious project cuz I
do a lot of these three languages
on Twitch and for YouTube.
And I don't wanna overwhelm because they
all feel more trivial to me because I do
them a lot.
But I feel like I had to learn rust
by doing things reading things and
doing it a bunch over time.
But if I could have just saw someone one
to one translate something really fast.
I feel like that would have been
I would have been like, okay?
Yeah, this makes more sense.
Okay, but
the hard part I think about rust is just,
knowing more about what
traits are available.
A lot of what makes something idiomatic
is just knowing what is available.
And I feel like that's
just a function of time.
And how good you are at
reading documentation and
remembering specific things and
how to use them.